#Recursion and technology saturation

> "Technology is anything that wasn't around when you were born" - Alan Kay

One of the most powerful aspects of art is its ability to convey complex ideas. This is why artists spend years exploring different themes and concepts, polishing their craft and bringing new things to the world. But these concepts are not new, they repeat themselves over time, building on top of each other, remixing what came before and finding new dots to connect. In this sense, technology is a great addition. As it is constantly evolving itself, it brings new techniques and tools to the mix. Nevertheless, while tech is definitely a key to new horizons, it does not make upcoming creations novel, it merely gives us new tools for expressing ourselves.

The recurring concepts in art are extensive. They go from the study of the self, in mind and body to their smallest detail; to the structure of society as a whole, specially its political or religious foundations. However, this repetition doesn't mean that everything has been already said before. (Even if it has, it is not a valid reason enough to prevent us from going back to them.) As time passes, society and humanity changes, and revisiting these themes results in a valuable update. Moreover, it marks the contrasts and similarities with our personal or collective past. This is where new technologies help us create seemingly new discourses, powered by the innovation and evolution of humanity. It makes old subjects feel fresh, or gives us a new tool to inspect them from a new perspective.

Nonetheless, we have to be aware of the risks the same technology poses. It can blind us with novelty. Advances on the tools and testing their boundaries help us push the limit of the possible. Yet this also might make us forget the conceptual background and create technological work for the sake of technology itself. 

Having this in mind, the efforts of the organizations to nurture and expand the arts are notable and appreciated. It is a field that does not have a good standing in the modern world, making it extremelly difficult for people to live out of it. In addition to this, the pioneer organizations of Keves and Klüver focused on redifining a collaboration that seemed impossible just years before. By concentrating themselves in science and technology respectively, they gave artists, scientists, engineers and others a new home where to advance their craft. They brought enormous progress to not only their fields, but to the perception that they could work in unison. Still, even if they didn't bring any significant change to the contemporary state of the art, they served us by inspiring generations to come. The ground work they did in outlining the new possibilities was exceptional and its results resonate to this day.
