# Uncomfortable art, uncomfortable society

Art has always been used as a medium to talk about current issues and to generate reflection on society. The breakthroughs in art, both in themes and forms, show us the direction of social movements, sometimes leading the discussions by years - if not decades. It is a powerful tool not only for people to express themselves, but to inspect their surroundings and have a testament of that period in time. But such transformations can't exist without retaliation - otherwise, they wouldn't be much of a concern. This is why it's so interesting to explore the work from Kara Walker and the response it generated from other African American artists.

Through her art, Kara Walker explores how some notions and principles from slavery and colonialism are still prevalent in modern day, and the psychological legacy they have imprinted in our society. Her exaggerated silhouettes and drawings evoke familiar images, rooted in out cultural unconscious. They speak of race, power and sex and the dynamics between them and her characters. At the same time, her medium itself addresses these issues and comes from a reflection of the *"the paradox of removing a form from a blank surface that in turn creates a black hole"*.

These topics and the exaggeration with which they are depicted, is what provoked many African American artists to harshly criticize Walker. They argued that her work was *"very sexist and derogatory"*, even going as far as stating that she *"consciously or unconsciously seems to be catering to the bestial fantasies about blacks created by white supremacy and racism"*. And while it is true that her work depicts exaggerated situations rooted in slavery and colonialism, she does it with the intention of generating a discussion on how much about it still persists. Her work not only deserves to be protected but is also necessary, because these issues are deeply rooted in many behaviours present in today's society. Yet they are shrouded in transparency, hidden in plain sight.

We are born, raised and molded by society, inheriting more customs and ideas than we'd like to believe. Heidegger coined the term "transparency" to refer to the automatic acts we perform daily without noticing, unless something -or someone- brings attention to them. Like a smudged window, walking or even breathing.

By clearly displaying these stereotypes and constructs that still resonate in present day, she unveils them, she breaks the transparency of their presence. And this process seems violent, because it is violent, because our society and culture are violent. The primitive thoughts about slavery still have an influence on how African Americans are viewed and portrayed nowadays. And to lay these behaviours, this representation of our culture in such an evident manner generates rejection. We are used to live in such a society, we endure it. But seeing it for what it is, without any nuance, makes us cringe at the intensity of the ever present racism.

This is why her work is necessary. The philosophies behind slavery and colonialism are very much alive in our society, lurking behind stereotypes and behaviours. And being shaken and uncomfortable by pieces like Walker's is the first step to identify, fight against and eradicate them at last.
